Prepare repo for writing Proposals (#5)
video-dev/media-ui-extensions: README.md

# media-ui-extensions
Extending the HTMLVideoElement API (`<video>`) to support advanced video player user-interface features

With the addition of [Web Components](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components) to the browser, video player developers can create custom elements that mimic the video tag API, with goals of creating stand-in compatibility with the video tag and compatibility across players. The video tag API is however lacking some important functions to support modern player UIs, including playback quality/resolution selection and awareness of ads. This repo is intended to capture requests and proposals for those functions.

## Goals for Proposals

> we want these proposals to be something that we can eventually propose to the Media WG or WhatWG as additional features to the video element and anything related. In the meantime can be used as a spec to keep things interoperable between implementers.

Reviewer: nitpick(blocking). Grammar.

```suggestion
We want these proposals to be something that we can eventually propose to the Media WG or WhatWG as additional features to the video element and anything related. In the meantime, proposals accepted to media-ui-extensions can be used as a specification to keep things interoperable between implementers.
```

## Before submitting a proposal

> If you have a new idea, it might be worth creating an issue to discuss it a bit first before submitting a proposal to make sure that it's something could be a good fit and won't be less likely to be rejected later on.

Reviewer: suggestion(blocking): Ambiguous. Per out of band conversation, it appears that every one of our current [Media UI Extensions Issues](https://github.com/video-dev/media-ui-extensions/issues) should have already been proposals, whereas issues should be reserved for much simpler questions like "Would something that models available renditions be a good candidate for a media ui extension proposal? Having some way to to know details about the available renditions in a predictable way would help for building things like a rendition selector, etc. etc.". Maybe consider adding examples and non-examples?

Author: I do think that some ambiguity is warranted here.

Like the Rust RFC, the idea is that someone who isn't part of the core team or deeply involved in video doesn't waste time on a detailed proposal if they aren't sure that it could be useful or that there may be enough community buy in. It's definitely a bit easier on the rust side because it's the core team that decides where-as we're trying to make this more of a community thing.

That said, can still be cleared up a bit with some examples.

I do think that until recently, the renditions issue probably couldn't have been a full proposal (or at least would've been in PR for a long time) because there wasn't a good direction for it. The DVR and stream types probably could've been a PR from the beginning.

Reviewer: Ah ok... I think I'm still unclear on what in your mind is a good point for something becoming a proposal PR. Maybe that's fine? Taking the renditions proposal as an example, it was pretty clear (imo) early on that **_some_** kind of API would be beneficial as a media-ui-extension, even if there were a lot of details to work through on what it could/would look like. From our followup conversation, I guess I assumed that once we were confident **_something_** should be proposed, it should move from an issue to a PR. We could also solve this by formalizing the process and (to be defined) relevant parties for requesting an issue be "converted" into a draft proposal PR?

Author: I think a proposal is something that you can fill out the template pretty well for, as well as include a specific proposal for how to solve the issue at hand. If you have just a specific problem you're trying to solve, or you haven't thought about alternatives or prior art or stuff like that, it probably belongs as an issue first rather than going directly to a PR.

A lot of the proposals we have coming down the line are things that we have been thinking about for a long time and had a pretty good idea for a direction for them. The fact that they did have a lot of discussion doesn't mean it shouldn't have been a PR proposal.

For the renditions issue, we didn't have a clear direction at first, so, opening an issue was a good call. Now, that we have an idea to proceed, making a PR proposal would be the next step to move the renditions proposal forward.

This section definitely applies less to us since we're likely to only submit a proposal that we need. But this also falls into something else you called out re "the team". Like, who is making the final decision for these things? I was on purpose a bit ambiguous, but maybe too ambiguous. For Rust, it's a lot clearer who it is that makes these decisions. Probably should start with the media-chrome committers (and have them have write access to this repo)? Though, at the moment, I think only heff has write access here.

## Submitting a proposal
- Fork the repo
- Copy `0000-template.md` to `proposals/0000-your-feature.md`. Don't change the number yet as that will be updated when the PR is created.
- Fill out your proposal with as much detail as possible.

> - Submit a pull request. Once the PR is created, the file `0000-` prefix and the header of the file should be updated to point at the new PR number.

Reviewer: suggestion(non-blocking): Maybe call out specifically that this may require a PR followed by an additional commit + push with the rename (🐔 + 🥚 problem)

- Folks should now review the proposal and suggest changes. While in the PR, it's expected that many changes may be made. Ideally, please don't rebase commits in the branch as it'll make reviewing only new changes easier.
- At some point, a team member should issue a Call for Consensus (CfC). This CfC will include whether this proposal should be accepted, rejected, or postponed.

> - The CfC will last a minimum of 2 weeks to make sure that everyone gets a chance to review

Reviewer: suggestion(non-blocking): do we want to make it a hard minimum of 2 weeks, or should we allow for something more like, 

> The CfC will last a minimum of 2 weeks to make sure that everyone gets a chance to review. If all relevant parties have explicitly finished reviewing before 2 weeks, the CfC may end early.

This may depend on who counts as "everyone" here. If we want to treat this more as an open "request for comments" to the larger community, we'd likely want a clear, fixed time window. If we're instead more concerned about "explicit relevant parties" (which could vary per proposal), my suggested change may be ok.

> - If the CfC generated a lot of new comments, the proposal will likely be rejected or go back to development mode again.

Author: It's not really a new state, it's back to the original state. Just not called out until here.
So, when a PR is made it's in "development mode" and then it gets accepted, rejected, or postponed. The Rust RFC is similarly inexact in only calling it development mode here and not earlier.

I do think there should be ambiguity in terms of completing the CfC, though, happy to reword it as well.

Maybe something like:

> If there is enough consensus, the CfC will close successfully. If there is no consensus, the proposal could be rejected or go back to be re-edited.

> - If the CfC generated a lot of new comments, the proposal will likely be rejected or go back to development mode again.

Reviewer: That sounds perfect for this phase.

## Implementing a proposal

> Once a proposal has been accepted, it can start to be implemented. If during implementation, major issues are found, the existing proposal shouldn't be updated but a new proposal should be issued. The old proposal should be updated to link to the new proposal.

Reviewer: suggestion(non-blocking): Should we instead formalize something like a "draft proposal" for an accepted proposal that has yet to be implemented? With our current directory structure and top level readme, it may be difficult to identify superseding proposals and the set of proposals that are
1. accepted
2. implemented
3. not superseded
